- bugs and basic borked functionality
	- TODO github search for all of these
		- also search for prs from bad3r on discord. they seem to have their head on their shoulders and a lot of good ideas for fixing basic broken stuff
	- navigation
		- block search results should be above the create page button!! if there is a matching block i'm hell of a lot more likely to want the match than to make a new page
		- navigating to blocks with ctrl-k should work like this plugin!! except across pages, not just within one ofc
			- ((676202f0-06eb-4c08-a4ba-bfccfdf0aa4f))
				- it has much better navigation within a page than the command palette, which always zooms in when focusing on a block.
				  id:: 67620c49-6c6c-4d1d-840a-8ab35ecd0b4c
				  losing visual context (incl from unexpected page jumps) sucks so bad. when i "go to" a block that is on the same page as the current one, it should just scroll to that block. i can decide whether to zoom in from there.
		- relatedly there seems to be no keyboard based way to navigate up out of a zoomed in block unless you're in edit mode? wtf
			- it works in edit mode but the command is called "Zoom out editing block / Backwards otherwise"
				- but when not in edit mode it doesn't go back! gotta click the mouse instead!
			- ((676199c1-c0a0-42de-839e-7781f134d629)) has an action for this, could maybe be patched. "zoom out" and "scroll to parent" should definitely be a single command
		- ((67620d11-6b0d-45e4-a8eb-4836d24feb04))
		- option to instantly preview a block in a focused reference (with context and first level children)
		  :LOGBOOK:
		  CLOCK: [2024-12-19 Thu 13:17:36]
		  :END:
			- TODO there's already a mouse hover preview for references that displays the block in editable form - figure out how to invoke it from keyboard.
		- ["Find in page" does not focus the find prompt if it is already open unfocused](https://github.com/logseq/logseq/issues/8360)
			- honestly probably better to replace it with a non-fuzzy version of ((676202f0-06eb-4c08-a4ba-bfccfdf0aa4f))
	- text editing
		- ((67631850-7c5e-441d-a8f8-36cca93058a3))
		- ((676301a9-62b5-42d7-b88d-d516bc4ec0ef))
	- there is global.edn but no global.css?
		- you can `@import url("../assets/custom/header_label.css");` but i [had to google for it](https://discuss.logseq.com/t/custom-css-cant-import/3297/4).
			- TODO proposal: just have a global.css and have it be imported by default in new graphs
	- deleting the top level block from inside an embed should also kill original block "in real life".
		- this should delete the embed at the source too.
			- if the block that contained the embed contained nothing else, delete the whole block too
		- note: deleting children already works as expected (updates original's children) but not the top level of the embed
	- graph view annoyances:
		- [aliases are always visible on graph](https://discuss.logseq.com/t/improve-implementation-of-aliases/81/40) [same github issue](https://github.com/logseq/logseq/issues/4709)
		- want to ((676200f1-fb2a-4c1f-a4de-ea3294bc7d06))
	- TODO `ctrl-r` should not be bound by default to reload. doesn't this cause data loss? make it `ctrl-shift-r`
	- [user perceptions of tech debt](https://old.reddit.com/r/logseq/comments/1cc6jiz/the_logseq_team_is_a_terrible_steward_of_logseq/l1kvi9t/) (this comment is relatively friendly, the rest of the thread is pretty mean)
		- they do kinda raise a valid point, the development of rum is really slow - no releases in years. If logseq is so active (and very demanding performance wise), why aren't they contributing patches upstream?
- extended syntax:
	- link to a block so that when clicked it's shown in X levels of context and briefly highlighted. like on reddit D:
	  id:: 676200f1-1f67-44c0-94e7-6500a19672f4
	- link to a page such that the edge doesn't show up in graph visualization
	  id:: 676200f1-fb2a-4c1f-a4de-ea3294bc7d06
- add an option to make automated scrolling instant, but have the scrollbar catch up smoothly while leaving a visual "shadow" at its point of origin.
	- this way i can get to my content instantly when i know where i'm going, but if i'm taken somewhere unexpected (either bug or fatfinger) then i can check the scrollbar to see where i came from and reorient
- unify and properly document commands
	- we have all three: keyboard shortcuts, command palette, slash commands, macros
		- and no clear way to link up! vscode does it so much better! like them, we should be able to assign a keybind while looking at the command in the command palette or a context menu
			- when displaying source of a command, drop `$plugin.` and `-plugin$`
			- some plugins define shortcuts with plaintext in their settings!! this makes you very confused when the command doesn't show up in the default interface!!
			  id:: 6761f67c-8346-43e3-9aa5-9cd9faf8c1ce
				- for example ((676186f2-ba8d-49ee-ab61-62d4ea805538))
		- we should be able to rearrange and filter the block context menu.
	- extension controls. we should be able to:
		- rearrange extension buttons with drag and drop
		- let extensions define custom behaviour on alternate clicks on their button(right, middle) and while holding mod keys.
			- but reserve shift-rightclick for a system context menu with option to configure/disable/remove
- undo-tree like some wonderful guy tried and failed to get into vscode (after a valiant attempt, see the back and for on this issue [[Feature Request] Undo branches · Issue #20889 · microsoft/vscode · GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/issues/20889))
- deeplinks to open a plugin in the store
- plugin wishlist
	- pasting text (or media) on an focused block (while not in edit mode) block should paste the content as a new block under it
	  id:: 676301a9-62b5-42d7-b88d-d516bc4ec0ef
		- test child
	- inputting quotes while a string is selected should wrap the string. [seth yuan was really holding up half of logseq's basic functionality](https://discord.com/channels/725182569297215569/752845167030960141/1319236853416853504)
	  id:: 67631850-7c5e-441d-a8f8-36cca93058a3
	- truncate long urls when editing. clicking the url makes it full-length/editable. i generally hate rich-text/wysiwyg editing but makinng an exception here
	- toggle folding of the Xth level of current block or document
		- also command to toggle fold/unfold the deepest level that isn't entirely folded/unfolded
	- the command palette should navigate to blocks on the current page with the style oft
	- render a rss/atom/json feed as blocks
		- [logseq-rss-reader](https://github.com/b-yp/logseq-rss-reader) is not it (modal reader, not blocks embed) but worth checking out the libs used
	- tampermonkey D:
		- [i want github hovercards](https://github.com/Justineo/github-hovercard)
	- block embeds should have a button to jump to that block (with context)
	  id:: 67620d11-6b0d-45e4-a8eb-4836d24feb04
	- lock a block to prevent edits (can still select)
	-
- end-user programming (as prohesied by maggie appleton)! macros but actually cool
  collapsed:: true
	- so this just already exists huh https://docs.logseq.com/#/page/clojurescript%20eval%20in%20a%20block
		- prior art:
			- clojure in queries? https://discuss.logseq.com/t/more-function-in-advanced-query-runtime/22975
		- needs better docs! this user promised but never delivered.
			- TODO some examples upthread tho https://github.com/logseq/logseq/pull/7287#issuecomment-1322859418 gotta read/document those
			  id:: 676301a9-6b2a-40c7-a287-882264bf0383
	- examples
		- i was saving a lot of links from a website and needed to reformat them based on the content
		  this meant requesting the html of each one, finding a specific dom element, append its contents to the block
			- i know python and it would have been a fairly quick python script (with the appropriate libraries)
				- TODO hmm is there a python parser for logseq-flavored markdown that turns it into a structured tree, and then puts it back into markdown after i'm done editing. then i could just run the python on my files. is this it? https://github.com/logseq/nbb-logseq gotta ask around
		- ((676301a9-6b2a-40c7-a287-882264bf0383))
		  :LOGBOOK:
		  CLOCK: [2024-12-19 Thu 12:00:12]--[2024-12-19 Thu 12:00:13] =>  00:00:01
		  :END:
	- ui description
		- a block could have a button to attach a codeblock of javascript or clojurescript (with included query capability, access to logseq features, functions from plugins, etc) and a "run" button
			- safety first!
				- possibly have the script sandboxed to that block and its children
				- automatically save to disk beforehand! display a diff of the file afterward!
			- you could have a ui toolkit as well for user input
			- could also have a command (remember, erase the difference between / commands and command palette) to run that same clojurescript from elsewhere on the currently focused block
				- or if multiple blocks are focused, on their common (grand)parent
		- the vibe should be that it is low friction, easy to define and run!
			- then delete if it was a one time script
			- or leave in place (if it's reusable but specific to where it was called from)
			- or copy the code and save it to a new block somewhere else for future use